Port MASTG-TEST-0012: Testing the Device-Access-Security Policy (android) (by @guardsquare) (#3113)
OWASP/owasp-mastg: tests-beta/ios/MASVS-RESILIENCE/MASTG-TEST-0243.md

---
platform: ios

> title: References to Secure Lock Verification APIs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: References to APIs for Detecting Secure Lock Screen
```

id: MASTG-TEST-0243
apis: [LAContext.canEvaluatePolicy, kSecAttrAccessibleWhenPasscodeSetThisDeviceOnly]
type: [static]
weakness: MASWE-0008
best-practices: []
---

## Overview

> This test verifies that an application is running on a device with a set passcode. A set passcode ensures that data on the device is encrypted and access to the device is restricted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here's an enhanced version of the **iOS test overview**, incorporating the appropriate APIs:  

---

This test verifies that an app is running on a device with a secure lock screen (e.g. a passcode).  

On iOS, apps can determine whether a secure lock screen is set using the **LocalAuthentication** framework. Specifically, the `LAContext.canEvaluatePolicy(_:error:)` method with the `.deviceOwnerAuthentication` or `.deviceOwnerAuthenticationWithBiometrics` policy can be used to check if authentication mechanisms, including a passcode, are available.  

Apps leveraging the **Keychain Services API** can require passcode authentication before accessing sensitive data using the `kSecAttrAccessibleWhenPasscodeSetThisDeviceOnly` attribute.  
```

Author: The suggestion is a bit broken, so I added it as a separate commit

## Steps

> 1. Run a static analysis tool such as @MASTG-TOOL-0073 on the app binary, or use a dynamic analysis tool like @MASTG-TOOL-0039, and look for uses of `LAContext.canEvaluatePolicy` API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Run a static analysis tool such as @MASTG-TOOL-0073 on the app binary, or use a dynamic analysis tool like @MASTG-TOOL-0039, and look for uses of `LAContext.canEvaluatePolicy` API and the `kSecAttrAccessibleWhenPasscodeSetThisDeviceOnly` attribute.
```

## Observation

The output should contain a list of locations where relevant APIs are used.

## Evaluation

> The test fails if an app doesn't use API that verifies passcode presence.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The test fails if an app doesn't use any API to verify the secure lock screen presence.
```
